---
layout: post
title: The iPad mini
tags:
  - products
draft: false
---

I really like the new [iPad mini][mini].  It has a large (enough) screen, is capable of being held in one hand, and runs iOS, all of which is fantastic.  I could carry it with me on my Subway commute every morning and have more real estate than my phone for consuming content.  I might even pull it out at home and finish the e-books I have in progress.

What's unclear is how the market will react to it, since the price starts at $329 and similar tablets start at $199.  This device suddenly feels like a big investment.

Then, there's the software. For me, I would only use it prmarily for a few apps, all of which have a similar purpose of reading books or articles: Kindle, Reeder, Pocket, Flipboard (on occasion).

That got me thinking I might be better suited with a speciality device if I am to fill this need.  The Kindle Paperwhite, which is a great deal at $139 for the ad-free version is much better suited for reading.  It may be hard to live without iOS, but that might be a good thing if it's going to actually use it to read.

Ultimately... I would end up getting the iPad mini.  The Apple platform effects most aspects of my life already.  I've spent  hundreds of dollars on apps that make the device immensely more valuable out of the box.  I'll be accoumulating numerous lightning cables and have them placed around the house and at work for easy charing.  Using the device is now like second nature after 5+ years on the platform.  Apple, quite simply, has me hooked on their platform.

Everyday consumers are more flexible on these things than I am, though.  But, since the iPad mini doesn't satisfy the budget conscious or status symbol seekers due to it's small size, higher cost, and late entry to the market it's success as a product may be limited.  Time will tell how it's received outside of the Apple techie following.

Whatever happens with the device long term, it's interesting to see Apple following into this market.  It's not clear if they're going to lead it, yet, based on the competitive offerings from Google and Amazon.  Also, there are now 14 (!) different configurations of iPads available.  That's not the mark of focus that Apple as an organization has done so well in during the last ten years.  This could be the start in their loss of dominance.

[mini]: <http://www.apple.com/ipad-mini/overview/>  "Apple's iPad Mini"